Welcome to the section 17 challenge I mean the Section 17 workspace and no notice that I've got to challenge
projects here.
The first one is challenge Dash 1 and that's the harness that I'm going to give you that's basically
you have to write three functions for this challenge and I'm giving you the function prototypes and
you have to write the functions.
There's also the challenge solution dash one that's my solution to this challenge and we'll do that
in the next video.
Also notice that there is a challenge Dash 1.
So that implies is going to be a challenge.
Dash 2 I'm planning to put another challenge in this section which will implement a doubly linked list
using raw pointers and will replace the raw pointers with smart pointers so that can really play around
with it.
The best way to understand pointers or even smart pointers is just to play with them to create examples
to try them out make mistakes.
Understand why this doesn't work.
You try to copy a unique pointer and it won't work and you go oh yeah of course you can't copy unique
pointers.
So this is the idea just to play with this and you get more experience using it.
So that's what this challenge is all about in this challenge.
We're going to create a real simple main that's going to instantiate a VEC pointer and I'll show you
this very point to right here and then I'll talk about the challenge in more detail in a sec but let's
just get an overview of what's going on here.
You can see here's my main and these are the three function prototypes and you have to implement those
three functions.
But let's talk about the main first main has vector pointer.
And so here's VEC pointer in what is Veck pointer look like.
Well that pointer is on the stack and it is.
And this may look a little complicated this declaration here but break it down into pieces and it'll
make a lot of sense.
The pointer is a unique pointer.
OK so it's an object.
And this is on the stack here.
So what is a unique pointer we know what a unique pointer is a unique pointer is basically an object
that manages a raw pointer.
And in this case it's a unique pointer.
So I'm pointing somewhere where my pointing Well I'm pointing to a vector.
All right.
So here's my vector remember vector can have multiple elements.
So here's my vector.
Now I notice everything over and this side is on the heap right.
All of this stuff is going to be on the heap.
The only thing that's on the stack is that Veck point to right here.
So now we've got a vector Ocana what that is.
Well what does a vector contain.
Well the vector elements are shared pointers.
So each one of these guys is going to be a shared pointer.
Right.
So I just put Espey here so you know what I'm talking about.
So what's a shared pointer.
A shared pointer is an object and the shared pointer in this case manages a test object.
And we've got a test class right up here same one we've been using in this section.
So this guy now has a test object that it's managing and this guy's managing a test object and so forth.
So this looks pretty complicated and it's not that complicated when you really break it down like that
again.
All we've got on the stack is a pointer that points to a vector on the heap that vector contains shared
pointers and those shared pointers refer to test objects.
OK so how are we going to do this.
Well we're going to do this really easily because the vector in the Test class the unique pointer class
and the shared pointer classes really do most of the work for us and we're going to do this with no
news and no deletes that we're not going to use you we're not going to use delete.
We're going to use make shared make unique and let the destructors be called automatically when the
reference counts go down to zero or when the unique pointer goes out of scope.
So this is going to make our memory management really really simple.
We're not going to work with raw pointers at all.
All right so that's the big picture.
So now what are we doing.
Let's walk through this man.
I'm going to clear this out real quick and let us walk through our main one step at a time here.
So here we've got a pointer that's just going to create that object on the stack.
It is not creating that vector on the heap.
We need to do that ourselves.
So again that Veck pointer is just that simple unique pointer object on the stack in order to create
that vector that we're pointing to.
We need to call this function make.
That's this function right up here.
There's the function prototype right here.
You can see make right over here.
Again this looks really complicated but it's pretty straightforward again.
What are we returning from May.
Well we're returning a unique pointer to a vector of shared pointers that manage test objects right.
So inside make is where we're going to use make unique.
We're going to actually create that unique pointer to make it point to that vector.
OK once we've got that we're going to ask the user how many data points do you want to enter.
And let's say they type in three we'll read that into them and then we'll call fill and look what we're
passing into fill.
We're dereferencing Veck pointer.
Well what is Veck pointer pointer is a unique pointer to that vector.
So when I dereference a pointer I get the vector that it's pointing to.
So I'm calling Phil with the vector and the number of elements.
And you'll notice that here is Phil right here.
And Phil is going to do is it's going to loop as many times as the user wanted in this case 3 and it's
going to say.
So what's the first integer you want to enter.
You'll type in 10.
What's the second one.
It was the third 130 and for each of each one of those integers that the user enters we're going to
create a shared pointer to one of those test to objects with that in each of the entered right here
and we're going to put that on the vector using pushback.
That's it.
Now we'll call display.
Notice again where dereferencing a pointer that gives me the vector and display is right here on line
69 and all we're doing and display is we're just iterating through that vector of shared pointers and
displaying whatever data as those test objects hold.
Sounds complicated.
It's not so complicated just to break it down into little pieces and take them one step at a time.
Let me run this for you so that you can see what the output looks like and I'll run it based on my solution
here and that's build and run.
So the first thing it says is I'm going to just slide this over here so you can see the actual code
next to it.
So here's my main right here.
How many data points do you want to enter.
Let's say I want to enter five data points enter data point 1.
Now we are right now we're in that film method the fill method is one that's going to loop five times
in this case each time asking me for what data I want.
It's going to make shared right and create that shared pointer to that test object that has whatever
I type in.
So let's say I want to type 10.
Now you'll notice that over here on the right we've got test constructor that's just a little debug
statement that I put in there to help you out.
It's being indented so that you can see it.
So what's happening here is we've just created a test object with a 10 which is what the user typed
in.
So let's create another one 20.
Remember we're going to get five of these so we'll do 30 40 and 50.
So at this point our fill is done.
Now we're going to display all those elements in that vector.
So when I press Enter now that will be called display and it'll display everything.
There we go it says display Vector Data 10 20 30 40 50.
Now look what happens test destructor 10 20 30 40 50 again.
I've got a little simple print statement in the destructor for the Test class and you can see that these
objects are being cleaned up off the heap which is really cool.
So no deletes necessary because we're using smart pointers and this is the output that you should get
from this main.
Once you implement those functions so there you go it's up to you now.
What you need to do again is implement make fill and display and if you scroll up just a little bit
here and is also in the description text it tells you a little bit more about what those functions should
do.
So again the function make it creates and returns a unique pointer to a vector of shared pointers to
test objects the fill function expects a vector of shared pointers to test objects and the integer for
higher numbers a user wants to enter.
And it prompts the user and creates those shared pointers as it goes.
And then the display just displays everything in there.
And if you look at the function prototypes that I provided and you can change these to whatever you
like if you want to try it with without the ref with the ref Konst non-contest try it out change them
around and see what happens.
But these are the function prototypes I'm giving you you can see that make expects nothing and returns
a unique pointer.
In this case Phil expects a ref to a vector.
Now this one has to be a ref right it can't be hit by value otherwise you won't add anything to the
vector and it can't be conc because we actually need to change that vector.
But display should read should expect a ref and it should be contest.
So in this case I want to be efficient and not copy that vector.
And at the same time I don't want to change it accidentally.
So there's my Konst.
All right that's it.
Good luck have fun.
Play around.
Change these prototypes if you like.
Use the debugger I'm sure that'll help you a little bit when you're trying to learn this stuff.
So those are the three you shouldn't have to change the main and you should get the same output as I
did.
We'll come back to the next video and we'll do the challenge solution and you'll see that it's actually
pretty straightforward it's real nice to be able to have C++ manage all this stuff for us using smart
pointers.